.TH "whipper" "1" "February 2020"
.SH whipper
Usage: whipper [command]

Whipper is a CD ripping utility focusing on accuracy over speed.

Whipper gives you a tree of subcommands to work with.

You can get help on subcommands by using the -h option to the subcommand.

Commands:
  accurip   handle AccurateRip information
  cd        handle CDs
  drive     handle drives
  image     handle images
  offset    handle drive offsets
  mblookup  lookup MusicBrainz entry

Implemented by: whipper.command.main.Whipper

Options:
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
  -e  --eject    when to eject disc (default: success)
  -R, --record   record API requests for playback
  -v, --version  show version information


.SH whipper accurip
Usage: whipper accurip [command]

Handle AccurateRip information.

Retrieves AccurateRip disc entries and displays diagnostic information.

Commands:
  show  show AccurateRip data

Implemented by: whipper.command.accurip.AccuRip

Options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit


.SH whipper accurip show
Usage: whipper accurip show [URL]

Show AccurateRip data

Retrieves and display AccurateRip data from the given URL

Implemented by: whipper.command.accurip.Show

Options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit


.SH whipper cd
Usage: whipper cd [command]

Handle CDs

Display and rip CD-DA and metadata.

Commands:
  info  retrieve information about the currently inserted CD
  rip   rip CD

Implemented by: whipper.command.cd.CD

Options:
  -h, --help                  show this help message and exit
  -d DEVICE, --device=DEVICE
                              CD-DA device


.SH whipper cd info
Usage: whipper cd info

Retrieve information about the currently inserted CD

Implemented by: whipper.command.cd.Info

Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -T TOC_PICKLE, --toc-pickle=TOC_PICKLE
                        pickle to use for reading and writing the TOC
  -R RELEASE_ID, --release-id=RELEASE_ID
                        MusicBrainz release id to match to (if there
                        are multiple)


.SH whipper cd rip
Usage: whipper cd rip

Rips a CD.

Tracks are named according to the track template, filling in the variables
and adding the file extension. Variables exclusive to the track template are:
 - %t: track number
 - %a: track artist
 - %n: track title
 - %s: track sort name

Disc files (.cue, .log, .m3u) are named according to the disc template,
filling in the variables and adding the file extension. Variables for both
disc and track template are:
 - %A: release artist
 - %S: release sort name
 - %d: disc title
 - %y: release year
 - %r: release type, lowercase
 - %R: release type, normal case
 - %x: audio extension, lowercase
 - %X: audio extension, uppercase

Paths to track files referenced in .cue and .m3u files will be made
relative to the directory of the disc files.

All files will be created relative to the given output directory. Log
files will log the path to tracks relative to this directory.

Implemented by: whipper.command.cd.Rip

Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -T TOC_PICKLE, --toc-pickle=TOC_PICKLE
                        pickle to use for reading and writing the TOC
  -R RELEASE_ID, --release-id=RELEASE_ID
                        MusicBrainz release id to match to (if there
                        are multiple)
  -L LOGGER, --logger=LOGGER
                        logger to use (default 'whipper')
  -o OFFSET, --offset=OFFSET
                        sample read offset (defaults to configured
                        value, or 0)
  -p, --prompt          prompt if there are multiple matching releases
  -c, --country         filter releases by country
  -O OUTPUT_DIRECTORY, --output-directory=OUTPUT_DIRECTORY
                        output directory; will be included in file
                        paths in result files (defaults to absolute
                        path to current directory; set to empty if you
                        want paths to be relative instead)
  -W WORKING_DIRECTORY, --working-directory=WORKING_DIRECTORY
                        working directory; whipper will change to
                        this directory and files will be created
                        relative to it when not absolute
  --track-template=TRACK_TEMPLATE
                        template for track file naming (default %r/%A
                        - %d/%t. %a - %n)
  --disc-template=DISC_TEMPLATE
                        template for disc file naming (default %r/%A -
                        %d/%A - %d)
  -U, --unknown         whether to continue ripping if the CD is unknown
  -x, --force-overread  force overreading into the lead-out portion of
                        the disc. Requires software/drive support to work
  --cdr                 whether to continue ripping if the disc is a CD-R
  -C, --cover-art       fetch cover art and save it as standalone file,
                        embed into FLAC files or perform both actions:
                        file, embed, complete option values respectively
  -r, --max-retries     number of rip attempts before giving up if can't
                        rip a track. This defaults to 5; 0 means infinity.


.SH whipper drive
Usage: whipper drive [command]

Drive utilities.

Commands:
  analyze  analyze caching behaviour of drive
  list     list drives

Implemented by: whipper.command.drive.Drive

Options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit


.SH whipper drive analyze
Usage: whipper drive analyze

Determine whether cdparanoia can defeat the audio cache of the drive.

Implemented by: whipper.command.drive.Analyze

Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -d DEVICE, --device=DEVICE
                        CD-DA device


.SH whipper drive list
Usage: whipper drive list

List available CD-DA drives.

Implemented by: whipper.command.drive.List

Options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit


.SH whipper image
Usage: whipper image [command]

Handle disc images. Disc images are described by a .cue file.

Disc images can be verified.

Commands:
  verify  verify image

Implemented by: whipper.command.image.Image

Options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit


.SH whipper image verify
Usage: whipper image verify [CUEFILE]...

Verifies the image from the given .cue files against the AccurateRip
database.

Implemented by: whipper.command.image.Verify

Options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit


.SH whipper offset
Usage: whipper offset [command]

Handle drive offsets.

Drive offset detection utility.

Commands:
  find  find drive read offset

Implemented by: whipper.command.offset.Offset

Options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit


.SH whipper offset find
Usage: whipper offset find

Find drive's read offset by ripping tracks from a
CD in the AccurateRip database.

Implemented by: whipper.command.offset.Find

Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -d DEVICE, --device=DEVICE
                        CD-DA device
  -o OFFSETS, --offsets=OFFSETS
                        list of offsets, comma-separated, colon-separated
                        for ranges (defaults to: +6, +667, +48, +102, +12,
                        +30, +103, +618, +96, +594, +738, +98, -472, +116,
                        +733, +696, +120, +691, +685, +99, +97, +600, +676,
                        +690, +1292, +702, +686, -24, +704, +697, +572,
                        +1182, +688, +91, -491, +145, +689, +564, +708,
                        +86, +355, +79, -496, +679, -1164, 0, +1160, -436,
                        +694, +684, +94, +1194, +106, +681, +117, +692,
                        +943, +92, +680, +678, +682, +1268, +1279, +1473,
                        -582, -54, +674, +687, +1272, +1263, +1508, +675,
                        +534, +740, +122, -489, +974, +976, +1303, +108,
                        +1130, +111, +739, +732, -589, -495, -494, +975,
                        +961, +935, +87, +668, +234, +1776, +138, +1364,
                        +1336, +1262, +1127)


.SH whipper mblookup
Usage: whipper mblookup [MUSICBRAINZ_ID]

Look up a MusicBrainz disc ID/release ID and output information.

You can get the MusicBrainz disc id with whipper cd info.

Example disc ID: KnpGsLhvH.lPrNc1PBL21lb9Bg4-
Example release ID: c56ff16e-1d81-47de-926f-ba22891bd2bd

Implemented by: whipper.command.mblookup.MBLookup

Options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
